As we would expect,
custom retry policies helped SaaS Bass with temporary socket exceptions.
Now, let's look at timeout exceptions.
In SaaS Bass's case, timeout exceptions are caused by temporary I/O latency.
To follow along with this demo, for the Base Tracker Service,
check out the adding-custom-retry-policies-timeout-exception branch.
For the Lake Profile Service,
also check out the adding-custom-retry-policies-timeout-exception branch.
In the lake-profile-service,
we're simulating a socket timeout exception by sleeping for 4
seconds for the first two GET requests.
Let's run the lake-profile- service and then switch
over to the bass- tracker-service.
The bass-tracker-service remains unchanged from the
module branch for this simulation,
except that we've removed the back off duration logs from the LakeProfileClient,
as those are now misleading due to the 4 second
sleep in the lake-profile-service.
Let's run the bass-tracker-service and see what happens.
We successfully create the lake profile,
then we attempt to get the profile the first time.
Attempt to get a second time.
Attempt to get a third time.
And then we're finally able to get the profile.
It felt like that took forever.
Is it taking too long for application's needs?
How can we tell what the maximum time retry will take
based on the properties we've specified?
Let's look at how to calculate the maximum timeout.
To calculate the maximum timeout we can expect from our retry configuration,
we first need to add up the connect and read timeout and
multiply that sum by max attempts.
Then, we'll subtract 1 from max attempts and multiply by max back off.
Then, we can add the two products together to get our total timeout.
Maximum back off is the tricky one here.
For a fixed back off policy, it's simply the back off period.
For an exponential back off policy, it's the max back off interval.
For simplicity,
we'll use the fixed back off policy properties for our calculation.
Let's take our fixed back off properties and apply them to the formula.
Doing the math, we see that the total timeout would be 12 seconds.
Keep in mind, this is the worst case scenario timeout,
and we should make sure it's within our application's acceptable limits.
Let's run a little test to prove that our formula works.
It's hard to simulate a connection timeout in our app,
so we'll set that to 0 and leave the rest of the properties as is.
Doing the math, we should expect an 11 second total timeout.
Let's switch to our application and see what we get.
In the lake-profile-service, let's set our getLakeProfileRequestCount to 5,
which will be higher than our retry count,
and then run it.
Then, switching to bass-tracker-service,
we've added a try/ catch with a timing log so we can
see the total retry timeout duration.
Let's run that.
In the logs, we can see that the total duration was very close to 11 seconds. Looks like our calculation worked.